br refactor: translate br Command-line Manual (#11391)
pingcap/docs: br/use-br-command-line-tool.md

---
title: br Command-line Manual
summary: Learn about the description, options, and usage of the br command-line tool.
---

# br Command-line Manual

> This document describes the description, components, and common options of the `br` command-line tool and how to perform snapshot backup and restore, log backup and restore, and PITR (Point-in-time recovery).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the definition, components, and common options of `br` commands, and how to perform snapshot backup and restore, and log backup and point-in-time recovery (PITR) using `br` commands.
```

## `br` command-line description

> A `br` command consists of sub-commands, options, and parameters. The sub-command is the characters without `-` or `--`. The option is the characters that start with `-` or `--`. The parameter is the characters that immediately follow behind and are passed to the sub-command or the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `br` command consists of sub-commands, options, and parameters. A sub-command is the characters without `-` or `--`. An option is the characters that start with `-` or `--`. A parameter is the characters that immediately follow behind and are passed to the sub-command or the option.
```

The following is a complete `br` command:

```shell
br backup full --pd "${PD_IP}:2379" \
--storage "s3://backup-data/snapshot-202209081330/"
```

Explanations for the preceding command are as follows:

* `backup`: the sub-command of `br`.
* `full`: the sub-command of `br backup`.
* `-s` (or `--storage`): the option that specifies the path where the backup files are stored. `"s3://backup-data/snapshot-202209081330/"` is the parameter of `-s`.
* `--pd`: the option that specifies the PD service address. `"${PD_IP}:2379"` is the parameter of `--pd`.

### Commands and sub-commands

> A `br` command consists of multiple layers of sub-commands. Currently, BR has the following sub-commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `br` command consists of multiple layers of sub-commands. Currently, br command-line tool has the following sub-commands:
```

* `br backup`: used to back up the data of the TiDB cluster.

> * `br log`: used to back up logs and manage log backup tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `br log`: used to start and manage log backup tasks.
```

> * `br restore`: used to restore the data of the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `br restore`: used to restore backup data of the TiDB cluster.
```

* `--ca`: specifies the path to the trusted CA certificate in the PEM format.
* `--cert`: specifies the path to the SSL certificate in the PEM format.
* `--key`: specifies the path to the SSL certificate key in the PEM format.
* `--status-addr`: specifies the listening address through which `br` provides statistics to Prometheus.

## Commands of full backup

To back up cluster data, run the `br backup` command. You can add the `full` or `table` sub-command to specify the scope of your backup operation: the whole cluster (`full`) or a single table (`table`).

- [Back up TiDB cluster snapshots](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-tidb-cluster-snapshots)
- [Back up a database](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-a-database)
- [Back up a table](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-a-table)
- [Back up multiple tables with table filter](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-multiple-tables-with-table-filter)
- [Encrypt the snapshot](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#server-side-encryption)

## Commands of log backup

> To back up logs and manage log backup tasks, run the `br log` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start log backup and manage log backup tasks, run the `br log` command.
```
